docs: update provenance tutorial (#1110)
oracle/macaron: docs/source/pages/tutorials/provenance.rst

Provenance discovery, extraction, and verification
--------------------------------------------------

This tutorial demonstrates how Macaron can automatically retrieve provenance for artifacts, validate the contents, and verify the authenticity. Any artifact that can be analyzed and checked for these properties can then be trusted to a greater degree than would be otherwise possible, as provenance files provide verifiable information, such as the commit and build service pipeline that has triggered the release.

> Currently, Macaron supports discovery of attestation for: npm artifacts using features provided by `npm <https://npmjs.com/>`_; PyPI artifacts using features provided by `Open Source Insights <https://deps.dev/>`_; and artifacts that have been published attestations to `GitHub <https://docs.github.com/en/rest/repos/repos?apiVersion=2022-11-28#list-attestations>`_. This tutorial uses two example packages to demonstrate these three discovery methods: The `semver <https://www.npmjs.com/package/semver>`_ npm package, and the `toga <https://pypi.org/pypi/toga>`_ PyPI package.

Reviewer: 1. We also support provenances published as release assets on GitHub. Please add that as well. You can use [urllib3@2.0.0a1](https://github.com/oracle/macaron/tree/benmss/update-provenance-tutorial/tests/integration/cases/urllib3_expectation_file) which also has a CUE expectation.
2. You should also mention that we support provenance files if they’re provided as input, as long as they use one of the supported `predicateType` and `buildType` (see the full list here). For reference, witness provenance is one supported example. You can find more details in the command-line options documentation.
3. I think it would be clearer to list the supported ecosystems as bullet points for better readability.

Attestation Discovery for toga (GitHub)
***************************************

The toga library is interesting in that it has GitHub attestation or PyPI attestation depending on which particular version of it is analyzed. To discover a GitHub attestation, we can analyze version 0.4.8:

.. code-block:: shell

    ./run_macaron.sh analyze -purl pkg:pypi/toga@0.4.8

During this analysis, Macaron will attempt to discover a GitHub attestation by computing the hash of the relevant artifact. This is a requirement of GitHub's API to view artifact attestation, see the `GitHub Attestation API <https://docs.github.com/en/rest/repos/repos?apiVersion=2022-11-28#list-attestations>`_. The hash is computed by downloading the artifact and analysing it with the SHA256 algorithm. With the hash, the GitHub API can be called to find the related attestation.

In this particular case, the SHA256 hash of the toga 0.4.8 artifact is 0814a72abb0a9a5f22c32cc9479c55041ec30cdf4b12d73a0017aee58f9a1f00. A GitHub attestation can be found for this artifact `here <https://api.github.com/repos/beeware/toga/attestations/sha256:0814a72abb0a9a5f22c32cc9479c55041ec30cdf4b12d73a0017aee58f9a1f00>`_.

> Attestation discovered through GitHub cannot be ascertained as verified at this time. However, we can still be sure that the repository URL and commit digest associated with the user provided PURL match what is found within the attestation. This is reported by Macaron in two checks: ``mcn_provenance_derived_repo_1`` and ``mcn_provenance_derived_commit_1``.

Reviewer: All attestations published on GitHub are signed, and their signatures are verified. Therefore, the verification check should pass for GitHub attestations, as long as we retrieve them directly from GitHub.

.. _fig_toga_github_checks:

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/tutorial_toga_github.png
   :alt: HTML report for ``toga 0.4.8``, summary
   :align: center

This image shows that both checks have passed, confirming that the repository URL and commit digest from the provenance match those associated with the user provided PURL. To access the full report use the following:

.. code-block:: shell

  open output/reports/pypi/toga/toga.html

**************************************
Run ``verify-policy`` command (semver)
**************************************

> Another feature of Macaron is policy verification. This allows Macaron to report on whether an artifact meets the security requirements specified by the user. Policies are written using `Soufflé Datalog <https://souffle-lang.github.io/index.html>`_ , a language similar to SQL. Results collected by the ``analyze`` command can be checked via declarative queries in the created policy, which Macaron can then automatically check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another feature of Macaron is policy verification, which allows it to assess whether an artifact meets user-defined security requirements. This feature can also be integrated into CI/CD pipelines to automatically check policy compliance by returning appropriate error codes based on pass or fail status. Policies are written using `Soufflé Datalog <https://souffle-lang.github.io/index.html>`_ , a language similar to SQL. Results collected by the ``analyze`` command can be checked via declarative queries in the created policy, which Macaron can then automatically check.
```
